No Labels.
PCA and clustering.
PCA-preprocessing before supervised learning.

Prinicipal component analysis- low dimensional representation.Find sequence of linear combinations that have maximum variance and mutually uncorrelated.
PCA--good tool for visualization for supervised learning.
Features should be normalized -mean 0,standard deviation 1.
There are at most min(n-1,p) principal components.Each of principal components are perpendicular to the rest,(because uncorrelated)
Another interpretation-Approximation by low dimensional plane that minimizes the PERPENDICULAR distance.

In case of linear regression, we also try to minimise the distance, but not the perpendicular distance, also it is supervised.

To understand strength of each component, we find the propotion of variance explained(PVE) by each one.

No answer to find number of principal components(no cross validation available)-----scree plot can be used as a guide--we look for an "elbow" i.e. sharp curve.

CLUSTERING-
K-means clutering(prespecified number of clusters),Hierarchical clustering

KMEANS-within cluster variance is minimum.
Typically uses euclidean distance.
For each of k clusters, assign random cluster centre, assign each observation to cluster whose centroid is closest.Modify cluster centres,until cluster/cluster centres do not change.
Not guaranteed to give global minimum, because starting centres are random.
K is tuning parameter.

Hierarchical clustering does not require K.Bottom up/agglomerative clustering is most common.
Joins closest pair of objects and join them.Ends when all points in a single cluster.
By cutting tree at appropriate height , we choose different number of clusters.

Types of Linkage-
Complete,Single,Average,Centroid(Slide 43/50)
Complete-Farthest distance(worst case),Complete,Average -most balanced and commonly used.
Single -Closest distance(best case)
Centroid-Distance b/w distance off centroids of clusters-common in genomics

Correlation based distance-computed between features.More correlation=> similar.

Other unsupervised-self organising maps, independent component analysis and spectral clustering.
